{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 MS Sans Serif;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\ul\f0\fs44\lang1033 DATABVASE!!!! ReadMe\fs32\par
\par
\ulnone\fs16 Github Page: {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://github.com/dragnilar/Databvase }}{\fldrslt{https://github.com/dragnilar/Databvase\ul0\cf0}}}}\ul\f0\fs16\par
\par
\par
\ulnone\fs24 Current Version 0.10.0.0 (Alpha)\ul\par
\par
Release Notes:\par
\par
\b\fs18 Rev 10 Changes\par
\ulnone\b0\fs16 - Fixed numerous bugs and performance issues, namely with syntax highlighting and the object explorer.\par
\par
- Added more syntax highlighting colors and made some additional ones configurable.\par
\par
- Switched text editor to Scintilla (the same editor used by Notepad++).\par
\par
- Added ability to display multiple query results sets instead of just one at a time.\par
\par
- Added option that allows you to display results grids in either a standard WPF grid with splitters\par
\par
or in dock panels that can be moved around.\par
\par
- Upgraded to DevExpress 18.1 to take advantage of various new features.\par
\par
- Added ability to use Direct X for various controls that are Windows Forms based.\par
\par
- Removed some localization files from DevExpress that were causing bloat to file size.\par
\par
- Added a query builder that allows you to construct selection queries via a GUI.\par
\par
- The object explorer now shows child nodes when a filter is applied.\par
\par
- The object explorer now more accurately displays column data types and sizes.\par
\par
- The object explorer now groups certain nodes in their own folders. \par
\par
- Added ability to script out views.\ul\fs24\par
\par
\b\fs16 Rev 9 Changes\b0\fs24\par
\ulnone\fs16 - Fixed various bugs with performance when creating new query tabs, syntax highlighting errors and also further increased the performance of the object explorer.\par
\par
- Added some more syntax highlighting colors (currently not configurable).\par
\par
- Fixed some bugs with the text color changing not applying correctly and/or causing strange errors.\par
\par
- The object explorer now seperates system databases from user database into seperate folders.\par
\par
- Added ability to script modify and alter functions and stored procedures.\par
\par
- Added ability to create database backups, much like SSMS. Note that backups will be created on the same computer as the server where SQL is installed, NOT on the machine you are on (unless of course your SQL instance is on the same machine). Note that this is a work in progress, so some functionality is not implemented. \par
\par
- Along with the backup wizard, a file browser has been added that allows you to view folders and backup files on the computer that SQL is installed.\par
\par
- Added a query builder that allows you to construct various select statements via visual aid.\par
\par
- Added a splash screen and improved the appearance of the connection wizard. \par
\par
- Added option to display the connection wizard on startup.\par
\par
- Fixed some spelling mistakes.\par
\par
- Removed some DevExpress localization files that were adding bloat to the executable.\ul\fs24\par
\par
\b\fs16 Rev 8 Changes\fs24\par
\ulnone\b0\fs16 - Fixed some bugs related to disconnecting and changing the focused instance/database.\par
\par
- Fixed a bug where the object explorer may sometimes show duplicate instances if you used a specific pattern of connect > disconnect > reconnect.\par
\par
- Refactored much of the code behind the object explorer to allow for further extension down the road.\par
\par
- Adjusted the internal messaging to use reflection instead of constant strings to allow for faster development.\par
\par
- Added ability to create new query tabs by right clicking on databases and instances\par
\par
- Added ability to see stored procedures, functions and views in the object explorer.\par
\par
- Added ability to script select * and select all from views.\par
\par
- Increased vocabulary of the syntax highlighting service (I.E. More types of joins, drops, alters, as, etc.)\par
\par
- Added comment syntax highlighting\par
\par
- Added ability to change comment coloring\par
\par
- Added text coloring options to the settings window\par
\par
- Added properties column to the object explorer (shows instance edition and column data types)\par
\par
- Increased the performance of the object explorer when connecting, disconnecting and building nodes.\par
\par
- Added ability to see see if a node has no children nodes in the object explorer (I.E. If a database has no tables, a "Nothing available" node will appear. This is typically in situations where there actually is nothing there or your SQL login does not have permission to see the data.) \par
\ul\fs24\par
\par
\b\fs16 Rev 7 Changes\b0\fs24\par
\ulnone\fs16\par
- Fixed some bugs that cropped up from adding in the functionality to connect to multiple database instances at once. These included:\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720 The disconnect button not showing when you connect > disconnect from all > connect again\ul\fs24\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}\ulnone\fs16 Query panes not showing the correct database instance DBs when you click new query on the ribbon after selecting an instance or connecting to a new one.\ul\fs24\par

\pard\par
\ulnone\fs16 - Fixed a bug caused by adding syntax highlighting. The text editor was not reflecting font color changes.\par
\par
- Replaced the default font dialog with one that is more stripped down but appropriate for the purposes of the application. \par
\par
- Added ability to access the new font dialog from either the text editor right click menu or the ribbon.\ul\fs24\par
\par
\b\fs16 Rev 6 Changes\par
\b0\par
\ulnone - Made minor re-arrangements to the settings window\par
\par
- Added ability to configure the line number color and the background color of the query text editor.\par
\par
- Added ability to configure the background color and display value for null values showing in the grid.\par
\par
- Added SQL syntax highlighting to the text editor. Currently only a few words are supported but more will be added down the road along with the ability to make further customizations.\par
\par
- Fixed a bug where line numbers would not show up in the text editor when generating scripts from the object explorer.\par
\par
- Fixed a bug where you could enter invalid values into the "number of rows" setting for select top * scripts.\par
\par
- Removed the context menu options in the query text editor to add comments, hyperlinks, bullet point lists and bookmarks.\par
\par
- Added ability to connect to multiple instances at once and retain connection to instances in individual query tabs (just like SQL Server Management Studio).\ul\fs24\par
\par
\b\fs16 Rev 5 Changes:\b0\fs24\par
\par
\ulnone\fs16 - Fixed bug where the connection wizard would not let you make a connection using a username and password.\par
\par
- Further improved the performance of the object explorer (it now only loads data from the server when a specific node is clicked instead of trying to load all the data for each subnode).\par
\par
- Fixed bug where the script generator was not properly generating scripts with the fully qualified table name.\par
\par
- Added an optional row number column to the query grid; this can be toggled with the settings.\par
\par
- Added navigator to the query grid that displays the number of rows and the ability to navigate between records.\par
\par
- Added ability to select multiple cells or individual cells via left clicking and drag on the query grid\par
\par
- Added ability to right click and copy or select all of the query grid\par
\par
- Slightly improved the way the grid handles null values versus blank values (they now show up on exports instead of as blanks).\par
\par
- Improved documentation of the readme and also added to the list of possible limitations/bugs.\par
\par
- Added a settings window (there isn't much there now) that will eventually let you configure various settings throughout the application.\par
\par
- Added ability to right click on a table and generate a select top number * script to a new query pane. The number can be adjusted in the settings and it defaults to 1000.\par
\par
\ul\fs24\par
\b\fs16 Rev 4 Changes:\ulnone\b0\par
\par
- Fixed error that occured querying database instances\par
\par
- Fixed crash bug when using queries that dont return result sets\par
\par
- Added ability to right click on a table and generate a select * script to a new query pane. \par
\par
- Grid now paints cells that contain NULL data in RED with [NULL] to help distinguish from empty strings. \par
\par
- Improved display and performance of the object explorer's initial load \par
\par
- Streamlined the right click + copy cell context menu option\par
\ul\fs24\par
\par
\b\fs16 Rev 3 Changes:\ulnone\b0\par
\par
- Fixed a crash bug that was occuring when testing and saving a database connection\par
\par
- The full database and instance name now displays in the object explorer\par
\par
- Full table names now display (previously table names with periods/schemas other than dbo would not display completely).\par
\par
- Added Direct X hardware acceleration support; you must toggle this manually in the settings if you wish to experiment with it. \par
\par
Otherwise wait until a proper settings menu is available to make use of it.\par
\par
Note: this setting requires an application restart.\ul\fs24\par
\par
\b\fs16 Rev 2 Changes:\b0\par
\par
\ulnone - You are now able to connect to a database instance and view all databases in the object explorer instead of just one database at a time.\par
\par
- To query a specific database, you must select a database from the drop down menu. Otherwise you will be running queries against the master database (just like in SSMS).\par
\par
- The file size grew a little becuase of the incorporation of SMO (SQL Management Objects)\par
\par
-  You no longer have to specify a database when you create a connection.\par
\par
 - Connections are no longer saved as connection strings, but as fields. \ul\fs24\par
\ulnone\fs16\par
\ul\fs24 Features:\ulnone\fs16\par
\par
\b View/ Look and Feel:\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\b0 Features over 50+ different kinds of skins/themes, allowing for you to customize the appearance of the appplication. This includes the new vector based Bezier skin/theme.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Ability to change the color palletes for the Bezier skin/theme via DevExpress' pallete selector.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Ability to select certain colors for each theme via the color mixer.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Ability to select the color of the query text editor as well as the line numbers.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Ability to select the font and font colors for the query text editor via either the ribbon or the right click context menu on the text editor window.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}All color and theme settings are saved to the settings file.\par

\pard\par
\b Window Layout\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\b0 Overall control of the application is controlled via a ribbon.\b\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}\b0 The ribbon can be minimized and moved (to a certain degree).\b\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}\b0 All query panes and the object explorer can be dragged off the main window and placed elsewhere.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Visual Studio/Management Studio style docking and floating of queries within the main window.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Visual Studio/Management Studio style pinning of the object explorer.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Individual query panes can be opened and closed.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}The object explorer can be closed (and shown again via a button on the ribbon).\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Semi-Responsive layout - Databvase resizes itself appropriately (within reason) to the size of your monitor and window size. \par

\pard\par
\b Connection Settings\par
\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720 Able to connect to any MS SQL Server database that is on the same or different network, permitting that the server is set up to accept connections via the standard ports.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Able to scan the network for any SQL Server instances that are visible (note that this scan can be time consuming, thus it is optional. You may type in a server address if you already know it).\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Able to connect using either Windows Authentication or using a Username and Password.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Saves all used connections to the settings file for later reuse.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}When you connect to a database, you may open query tabs and start running queries.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}When you disconnect from a database, all queries are retained and can still be run if desired.\par

\pard\par
\b Object Explorer\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\b0 Allows you to filter the database instances/tables/columns/views/stored procedures/functions via right click menus.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Allows you to search using the find panel (CTRL + F or right click the column header and select show find panel).\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Displays current databases/tables/columns that you can see in your current instances.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Able to right click and copy the name of the currently focused object.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Allows you to run the backup wizard by right clicking on a database node and selecting backup.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}You can script statements to a new query pane via the right click context menu (I.E. select * from [tablename].)\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Data for each node is loaded on demand (I.E. When you click on a database, only the table names are loaded, when you click on a table, the columns for that specific table are loaded).\par

\pard\par
\b Backup Wizard\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\b0 Much like SSMS, you can create database backups with Databvase. \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Backup paths can either be manually typed in or you can select a path and file locationf or the backup using a tree list view file explorer that lets you see folders on the computer where SQL server is installed.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}NOTE that backups HAVE to be created on the computer where SQL is installed.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}You can configure various aspects of the backup such as expiration date, differental/full, etc.\par

\pard\par
\b Querying\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720 Query Performance / Features\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 i.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pnlcrm{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li1080\b0 Able to have numerous query tabs open at once and run multiple queries at once asynchronously.\par
{\pntext\f0 ii.\tab}All queries can be executed against a specific database within the instance via a drop down/combo box on the ribbon. If this is not done you are presumed to be executing against the master (like in SSMS) or the database you specifiy in your query.\par
{\pntext\f0 iii.\tab}You can execute pretty much any query that you desire against a database (I.E. Selects, inserts, updates, drops, etc.)\par
{\pntext\f0 iv.\tab}Queries can be executed by either clicking an execute button or by hitting F5.\par
{\pntext\f0 v.\tab}Able to run part of a query by highlighting it and hitting F5.\par
{\pntext\f0 vi.\tab}Queries will (to a limited degree) factor in whether or not the text is commented out and if it is it will not run.\par
{\pntext\f0 vii.\tab}Queries can be created via the query builder tool by selecting a database and then clicking the query builder button. Note that if you do not have a database currently focused, you will get a message telling you to select a database first. This is necessary since the query builder needs a database connection to work.\par

\pard\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\b Text Editor\b0\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 i.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pnlcrm{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li1080 Line numbers are shown on the query text editor.\par
{\pntext\f0 ii.\tab}You can change the font and other display properties via the right click menu in the text editor.\par
{\pntext\f0 iii.\tab}You can also zoom in and out in the text editor via CTRL+mouse wheel\par
{\pntext\f0 iv.\tab}You can show the find and replace window by hitting ctrl+f in the text editor.\par
{\pntext\f0 v.\tab}Queries (or any text for that matter) can be saved to a variety of different file formats (I.E. Text, RTF, etc)\par
{\pntext\f0 vi.\tab}Query tabs can be renamed for easier identification.\par
{\pntext\f0 vii.\tab}Keywords such as SELECT, WHERE, INSERT, etc are highlighted in colors as well as strings and other various SQL specific syntax.\par

\pard\par
\par
\b Query Results/Data Display\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\b0 Query results are displayed in a DevExpress XtraGrid and messages (such as errors or result numbers) are displayed ina  messages tab.\b\par

\pard\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720 Filtering/Searching\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 i.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pnlcrm{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li1080\b0 The grid allows you to perform further data shaping via filters, sorting, searching and grouping.\par
{\pntext\f0 ii.\tab}Grouping can be performed by dragging column headers onto the group panel at the top of the grid.\par
{\pntext\f0 iii.\tab}Further filters can be applied via the right click context menu on the headers or via the filter button on each column header.\par
{\pntext\f0 iv.\tab}Sorting can be performed by clicking on a column header.\par
{\pntext\f0 v.\tab}Auto filter rows can be shown and hidden via the right click context menu on the column headers.\par
{\pntext\f0 vi.\tab}The search/find panel can be shown in the grid by pressing ctrl+F or right clicking on the column headers and selecting "show find panel".\par
{\pntext\f0 vii.\tab}You can show and hide columns via the column chooser in the right click menu or dragging columns off the screen.\par
{\pntext\f0 viii.\tab}Null values are by default displayed in red with the text [NULL]. You can change what is shown in the settings window.\par

\pard\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\b Navigation and Data Highlighting\b0\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 i.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pnlcrm{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li1080 You can copy (with headers) the results of your query to the clipboard via right click.\par
{\pntext\f0 ii.\tab}You can highlight individual cells via the left mouse.\par
{\pntext\f0 iii.\tab}A navigation control is displayed at the bottom of the grid that shows the number of rows in a result set as well as the ability to navigate between rows.\par
{\pntext\f0 iv.\tab}A selector/indicator column is displayed on the left side of the grid that shows the currently selected row and also allows you to highlight/select the whole row.\par
{\pntext\f0 v.\tab}An optional row number column can be displayed for your results that lets you see the row number within the grid (if the navigation control is not enough).\par

\pard\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\b Print/Exporting\b0\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 i.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pnlcrm{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li1080 You can print your query results out with a print preview tool that lets you make additional changes to your print out.\b\par
{\pntext\f0 ii.\tab}\b0 Query results can be exported to a variety of file formats via either the print preview/tool or via the export grid drop down on the ribbon (note that export time depends on the amount of data shown in the grid and also the file format selection. Also be aware that certain file formats have limitations for export, such as regular XLS having a limtiation of 65,000 rows).\par

\pard\par
NOTE: Pretty much all dependencies are embedded in the executable file to keep the package small. This means that the application should have everything it needs to run, assuming .NET 4.7.1  is installed.\par
\par
\ul\par
Known Bugs/ Limitations\ulnone\par
\par
\par
For a list of known bugs, limitations and potential enhancements, please see visit the Github page for Databvase:\par
\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://github.com/dragnilar/Databvase/issues }}{\fldrslt{https://github.com/dragnilar/Databvase/issues\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs16\par
\par
If you discover any problems or have any ideas, please feel free to share them as well! \par
\par
\par
\par
\f1\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f2\fs22\lang9\par

\pard\ul\f0\fs44\lang1033\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\f2\fs22\lang9\par
}
 